# 3.0 Current Situations / Problems Opportunity Statements

Existing problems in the City Government of Tagbilaran are the following: It
has a static website that is poorly maintained and is utterly useless when
accessed, a variety of links related to local government services leads to
blank pages. The website also does not have any modern social buttons or widgets
which may improve crowd awareness online, it also does not have any kind of
website content contribution feature which will also make the website rich
in content and updated to the current state of the city. The website does not
even have a single front line service for offices which deal with people
impromptu e.g Taxpayers asking for their official billing statements, This kind
of transaction can be done online with out any presence in the office to
minimize actual queue of people in the office that may avail other services
that may take longer turnarounds. The website does not even contain a static page
about the current local code and charters to accommodate inquiries about how
the city works. Due to lack of qualified employees to work in certain crucial
offices, a handful of experienced employees is needed to respond difficult
inquiries asked by the clients, again slowing down the turnaround of a single
employee. Another problems are common miscommunication of offices due to lack
of information about standard operating procedures from office to office, simple
flowcharts or organizational charts is needed for this. Slow responses to current
problems of the city is very noticeable, e.g The public may want to change the current
local code because it does not even support modern needs because it was built during
that time. The website's purpose is defeated because it is not accessed by
the locals for inquiring online local government services.

The Project Team will solve all of this problems stated above by building a website
that is more actively used by the public and will have a variety of concrete government
services online to accomodate current public needs. First we will gather all computer
savvy employees on each government departments to help us by training them new open
methods in building a website. After the team has a hold on each government departments
through these newly trained employees, each of them will formulate modular solutions to
great government services that can be catered using the website, after this we will integrate
each modular solutions to a social and content web platforms to increase public
awareness and involvement. Great public involvement will increase big data accumulated by our
database servers, this will help us on running statistical analysis and correlations
to answer certain questions related to this data. Further more the website will include
downloadable document forms for filing documents or web forms to be filled up online
for fast processing of transactions. It will also include each government department's
citizen's charter, organizational charts, flowcharts and any basic office instructional
media.









